hello there my name is Richard mcmun
from the interview training website pmy
interview.com and in this tutorial I
will teach you how to prepare for a
pilot interview if you are applying to
become a pilot with any Airline make
sure you stay tuned because the tips and
answers I am about to give you will help
you par your interview at the first
attempt and to achieve that goal I will
cover the following four things in this
video number one so I will tell you
which questions to prepare for in
advance of your pilot interview these
questions come up all the time during
pilot interviews and you must have top
scoring answers prepared number two I
will then give you two great tips for
answering each of those pilot interview
questions correctly number three I will
then give you brilliant example answers
to all of those airline pilot interview
questions to help you par your interview
at the first attempt and then finally
number four I will tell you where you
can instantly download these slides plus
my 21 great answers to tough pilot
interview questions and just very
quickly if you are new to my YouTube
Channel please make sure you hit that
subscribe button right now thousands of
you are part passing your interviews at
the first attempt I can only help you if
you are subscribed and please hit the
like button because that really does
motivate me to create more videos for
you thank you very much indeed okay so
the first pilot interview question I
strongly recommend you prepare for is
tell me about yourself let me give you
two important tips and I will then give
you my top scoring example answer so tip
number one make sure sure you practice
your answer to this first pilot
interview question before you attend
your interview it is important to come
across as a good communicator who has
the skills qualities experience and
knowledge needed to meet the demands of
this safety critical role and tip number
two in your answer talk about your
flying experience the strengths you have
and how you will help the airline
achieve its Mission so here is my top
scoring example answer to help you
prepare for your pilot's interview tell
me about yourself here we go thank you
for this opportunity to become a pilot
with your airline I am a safety focused
commercially driven and reliable pilot
with the experience knowledge and
aptitude to excel in the role with X
hours of flying experience and in-depth
knowledge of the aircraft you utilize at
this Airline I can come into the
position and immediately meet the roles
demands I possess excellent
communication skills I'm punctual and
flexible and can be relied on to take
command during challenging and safety
critical situations although highly
experienced I take my ongoing training
and development seriously and pride
myself on adhering to all Airline
procedures to ensure the safety and
comfort of passengers and crew with a
proven track record as a pilot I am
confident I can meet the expectations of
the role and support the airline's
mission to be a world leading Airline I
look forward to sharing further details
of my knowledge and experience with you
during this interview so that is a
brilliant example answer that will get
your pilot interview off to a positive
start now you can either pause the video
if you want to and write down the
questions and answers as we work through
them together or if you wait I will soon
tell you where you can instantly
download these slides with the answers
plus an additional 21 brilliant
responses to tough pilot interview
questions here is the next pilot
interview question I recommend you
prepare for and that is why do you want
to be a pilot tip number one now in your
answer say you are attracted to the
level of responsibility that comes with
being a pilot and the fact that you will
get to work alongside a diverse range of
people now tip number two other positive
things to say in your response include
the high level of technical knowledge
and aptitude required in the role the
travel and the need to continually learn
and develop your flying skills all of
which are part of the attraction to
becoming a pilot so here is my top
scoring example answer to help you why'
you want to be a pilot here we go I want
to be a pilot because of the level of
responsibility that comes with the role
the travel how I will get to meet and
work with new and interesting people and
the fact the role requires a passion for
continuous learning being a pilot I will
get to do something I love and the sense
of Pride the job offers is unrivaled
finally I want to be a pilot because the
role requires exceptional technical
competence and aptitude I have worked
hard to become a pilot and will take my
duty seriously to ensure the safety and
comfort of those passengers and crew I
am responsible for so that is another
brilliant example answer that will help
you pass your pilot interview at the
first attempt now don't go anywhere
because I still have more more questions
and answers to give you but when you're
ready you can click that link in the top
right hand corner of the video head
straight through to my website parmy
interview.com and you can instantly
download these slides plus an additional
21 great answers to tough pilot
interview questions but here is the next
question I recommend you prepare for and
that is why do you want to work for our
Airline tip number one now it's it is
vital you research the airline before
your interview I recommend you write
down a list of three to five things that
make you want to work for the airline
you have applied for as a pilot and tip
number two positive things to mention in
your answer include the airlin excellent
safety record how they support their
pilots and how your professional values
align with their mission so here is my
top scoring example answer to help you
why do you want to work for our
Airline I am attracted to your airline
for several reasons you have a strong
reputation in the aviation industry an
excellent safety track record support
your pilots in maintaining competence in
their work and offer a competitive
salary with excellent benefits and Duty
allowances your airline is unique and
other Pilots I have spoken to before
applying for this position have said
excellent things about how you operate I
have conducted extensive research into
your airline my values and how I
function and behave as a pilot perfectly
aligns with your mission and brand so
that's another great answer to help you
pass your pilot interview at the first
attempt here is the next question I
strongly recommend you prepare for what
skills and qualities make a competent
pilot tip number one now although you
will already know the skills and
qualities needed to be a pilot it is
advisable to read the job description
before your interview now the job
description details the exact skills and
qualities required by the airline and
tip number two in your response you can
talk about soft hard and technical
skills and the ability to remain calm in
stressful situations so here is my
example answer to help you what skills
and qualities make a competent pilot a
pilot requires a diverse range of skills
and qualities to maintain competence
these include soft hard and technical
skills a thorough knowledge of aircraft
and flight procedures and the ability to
solve challenging problems soft skills
include interpersonal skills
collaboration capabilities communication
and listening teamworking and time
management a competent pilot also needs
a positive attitude flexibility
motivation empathy self-discipline
confidence and a calm demeanor during
critical situations decisiveness and
quick thinking skills are also a
priority finally a pilot needs knowledge
of weather and terrain aircraft
configuration spatial orientation time
Horizon and aircraft systems so that is
a really good basis answer that you can
build on when answering that question
what skills and qualities make a
competent pilot here is the next
question what is a pilot's role during
an emergency tip number one so this next
question features often during pilot
interviews it is assessing your ability
to successfully deal with emergency
situations whilst under tremendous
pressure tip number two now although you
will want to enhance your answer with
additional details be sure to mention
the key priorities of aviate navigate
and communicate in your response so here
is my example answer to help you pass
your pilot
interview what is a pilot's role during
an emergency a pilot's role in an
emergency is to aviate navigate and
communicate the priority is to aviate
and keep the aircraft flying the second
priority is to navigate to a safe space
that safe space could be at a different
altitude or a nearby airport both
determined by air traffic control
finally the third priority is
communicating with air traffic control
crew members and passengers to provide
safety instructions and updates based on
the situation during an emergency the
pilot must access information from the
Pilot's operating handbook and adhere to
their training the aircraft's operating
protocols and strict safety procedures
now at all times the pilot must remain
calm and in control of the situation and
use teamwork to achieve a successful
outcome here is the next question I
recommend you prepare for what defines a
professional Airline pilot tip number
one now Airlines want to hire pilots who
are committed to professionalism high
standards and a focus on safety be sure
to practice your answer to this common
pilot interview question tip number two
in your response talk about being a
positive role model for the airline
taking responsibility for maintaining
competence and adhering to all
operational and safety procedures so
here here is my topsc scoring example
answer to help you what defines a
professional airline pilot a
professional airline pilot focuses on
safety and the comfort of their
passengers acts as a positive role model
for the airline while flying and also
off duty and takes responsibility for
their training and professional
development a professional pilot
maintains accurate records takes control
of difficult situations by communicating
concisely and professionally and
supports the airline crew and Airport
staff to ensure smooth and punctual
operations finally a professional
airline pilot supports other pilots and
co-pilots helps train new ones follows
all systems and operational procedures
never deviates from safety protocols and
ensures the aircraft they are
responsible for is serviceable and safe
to fly so that's another great example
answer that you can use when preparing
for your airline pilot interview now the
next thing to do if you want to
accelerate your learning even further is
click that link in the top right hand
corner of the video head straight
through to my website pmy interview.com
and you can instantly download these
slides plus an additional 21 great
example answers to tough pilot interview
questions make sure you check out that
link go through through to the website
because on that page I have given you
some more questions to prepare for also
don't forget to connect with me on
LinkedIn I have put my LinkedIn Link in
the description below the video it is
always an honor and a pleasure to
connect with like-minded professionals
such as yourself please hit the
Subscribe button I can then help you
throughout your career and finally give
the video a like because that really
does motivate me to create more content
for you thank you very much indeed for
watching and I wish you all the best for
passing your pilot interview have a
great day